# metabolic-pathway-based-cluster
**This script provide the essential code for analyse the metabolic pathway‑based clusters in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma**

Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the most aggressive types of squamous cell carcinoma and represents a significant proportion of esophageal cancer. Metabolic reprogramming plays a key role in the occurrence and development of ESCC. Unsupervised clustering analysis was employed to stratify ESCC samples into three clusters: MPC1‑lipid type, MPC2‑amino acid type, and MPC3‑energy type, based on the enrichment scores of metabolic pathways extracted from the Reactome database. The MPC3 cluster exhibited characteristics of energy metabolism, with heightened glycolysis, cofactors, and nucleotide metabolism, showing a trend toward increased aggressiveness and poorer survival rates. On the other hand, MPC1 and MPC2 primarily involved lipid and amino acid metabolism, respectively. In addition, liquid chromatography‒mass spectrometry‑based metabolite profiles and potential therapeutic agents were explored and compared among ESCC cell lines with different MPCs. MPC3 amplified energy metabolism markers, especially carnitines. In contrast, MPC1 and MPC2 predominantly had elevated levels of lipids (primarily triacylglycerol) and amino acids, respectively. Furthermore, MPC3 demonstrated a suboptimal clinical response to PD‑L1 immunotherapy but showed increased sensitivity to the doramapimod chemotherapy regimen, as evident from drug sensitivity evaluations. These insights pave the way for a more personalized therapeutic approach, potentially enhancing treatment precision for ESCC patients.

# References
Wang, Z., Zhang, Y., Yang, X., Zhang, T., Li, Z., Zhong, Y., Fang, Y., Chong, W., Chen, H., and Lu, M. (2024). Genetic and molecular characterization of metabolic pathway-based clusters in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Sci Rep 14, 6200. 10.1038/s41598-024-56391-w
